[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
Great program in store for you.
George J. Haas is
with us, the founder
and premier investigator of
the Mars research group known
as the Cydonia Institute.
What an amazing career
you have had, George.
Welcome to the program.
>>GEORGE HAAS: Well, thanks
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: What got you
involved with Mars?
>>HAAS: Well, long ago, I had
been very interested in Mars,
planets from grade
school and college.
>>NOORY: As kids, we
love Mars, don't we?
>>HAAS: Right, and I
was remembering when--
I was the class of 1976,
bicentennial class.
And of course, we had the
Viking Lander that landed.
It was supposed to
land on July 4, but--
>>NOORY: That's the one that
took the picture of Cydonia,
right?
>>HAAS: The Cydonia
area, right, the Viking.
So from that time on, I was
very interested in the idea
of possibly finding life
or structures or something
on Mars.
>>NOORY: And you never gave up.
>>HAAS: Never gave up.
>>NOORY: Never gave up.
Now one of our
probes that circled
the planet taking thousands
of pictures was the Mariner 9.
>>HAAS: Correct.
>>NOORY: When did that happen?
>>HAAS: The Mariner 9 was sent
up in, I think, May of 1971.
And it reached and started to
orbit Mars in that November.
>>NOORY: God,
49-year-old technology.
>>HAAS: Yes, and the Mariner
9 took over 7,000 pictures
of the planet.
And it also took pictures
of the two moons of Mars.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
This Mariner 9 has
since crashed, right?
It just, gravity pulls it in?
>>HAAS: Yeah, it photographed
the planet for about a year.
And it took some of
the first pictures
showing evidence of water on
Mars, some of the geology.
It took pictures of the Valles
Marineris, the Olympus mounds.
So it was very instrumental in--
provided a lot of science.
>>NOORY: Were these,
George, dramatic photos?
I mean, when scientists
first saw them,
planetary scientists,
astronomers, did they go crazy?
>>HAAS: Oh, they did because
they saw all this evidence of--
they thought Mars
was a dead planet.
But the Mariner
9 showed evidence
that there was evidence
that in the past where water
had formed some of the geology.
So they knew that there
was water in the past.
>>NOORY: What's so
significant about that?
>>HAAS: Well, if there's
water, there's life.
So that's always
been the mystery.
And the hard nut to crack with
Mars, is, what type of life
was there?
How long was there life on Mars?
And how green was the planet?
Was it just a short period of
being sustainable for life?
These are the questions we have.
And they're still trying
to figure these out.
>>NOORY: Well, we're going
to get into some pictures
that you've supplied us and
they're pretty astounding,
which will explain a
little bit more about Mars.
But it does make the
mind wander, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, it does.
And looking at the early
Mariner 9 pictures,
the scientist Carl Sagan
noticed a three-sided pyramid
on the planet, which
was pretty exciting.
>>NOORY: Did that baffle him?
>>HAAS: Yes, he
was very confused
about seeing a three-sided
very geometric formation
on the planet Mars
when they thought
this was just a dead planet.
And he actually brought
this to the attention
of scientific community.
>>NOORY: That doesn't
happen in nature, does it?
>>HAAS: Well, a three-sided
any type of geometric shape
doesn't normally
happen in nature.
With mounds, usually,
they're erratic.
They're dome-shaped at times.
Very difficult to
find a four-sided
or a three-sided pyramid.
And this image that
Sagan had looked at
was very sharp angles.
It was very interesting.
And the formation
was also featured
in a science paper, yeah, that
was published in "Icarus."
>>NOORY: Aha, OK.
>>HAAS: Not by
Sagan, but by a group
of other scientists
that had noticed it.
I think his name was
Gibson, something like that.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: And that was in 1977.
So it was a little later.
>>NOORY: And the
publication "Icarus,"
wasn't that the person
who flew too close?
>>HAAS: Yes, and that's a very--
>>NOORY: To the sun.
>>HAAS: --highbrow
science journal.
>>NOORY: Yeah, it is.
>>HAAS: So that's a
very prestigious journal
to be published in.
>>NOORY: We've got some
images of Mariner 9.
Let's take a look at a
couple of these, George.
And you can explain to us
what we're looking at here.
So what are we looking
at here, George?
>>HAAS: Yeah, this is the
Mariner 9's orbiter that--
>>NOORY: That's just the one
that took all the pictures.
>>HAAS: This is the one
It had an onboard camera
and took over 7,000 pictures
of the planet Mars.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
How big is that in relationship
to a man standing up?
>>HAAS: It's probably
about the same size.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>HAAS: They're not very big.
>>NOORY: No, not big at all.
And this, what site is this?
>>HAAS: This image is
showing the location
of the so-called Sagan pyramid.
This is the area of Elysium
that he saw the pyramid in.
>>NOORY: How was he able to
notice this and nobody else
did?
>>HAAS: Well--
>>NOORY: Or did people see it?
They just didn't say
anything about it.
>>HAAS: Well,
there was thousands
of pictures to go through.
And he had access,
being a scientist,
to go through some of
these early pictures.
And just the symmetry of it,
I guess, jumped out at him.
I guess, other scientists
had seen the formation,
but a lot of geologists, they're
just looking at the geology.
And they might see
that and think, oh,
that's an interesting
geological formation.
Because they were
looking for water.
>>NOORY: What did Sagan
say about the pyramid?
>>HAAS: He thought it was
an exceptional geometric
formation.
It's got these three
faces, very sharp.
And he thought it possibly
could be artificial.
And the formation is
about two miles wide.
It's a huge mega formation.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he wrote the
book "Contact," of course.
And he was a staunch believer
that there was life out there.
Didn't believe
that it visited us.
I mean, he was not a
believer in ET visitations.
But he did believe it was there.
>>HAAS: Yeah, he was very
cautious about his ideas
about how explaining how
such a formation could
get on the planet.
He said that it was
possible it could
have been an
artificial structure,
but he tried to give
explanations for wind erosion
and things like that.
And I think last time
I was on the program,
we talked about
the wind on Mars.
It doesn't get any faster than,
like, 16, 17 miles an hour,
15 miles an hour.
When they have storms,
it can get up to 60.
So you're really not going
to get that type of erosion
on hard surfaces to create
these nice, flat faces that we
see on this pyramid.
>>NOORY: Let's show folks
what this Sagan type
pyramid looks like.
>>HAAS: Yeah, this is
the original picture
that Carl Sagan saw.
The second image here,
this is a comparison.
>>NOORY: That's much better.
>>HAAS: On the left side is
the early 1972 Mariner 9 image.
And you can see the sharp
angles on that formation.
NASA sent up the
Viking orbiter in 1976.
And in 1978, they took this
picture, the second picture.
But as you can see, it's very
blurry, the one on the right.
And that's a higher resolution
picture from the Viking,
but I think the camera was
way high above the surface.
So this is the last picture,
the only other picture
that Carl Sagan had access to.
And he died in 1998.
>>NOORY: And that's it again?
>>HAAS: This is a themis, the
Mars Odyssey themis image,
which takes heat signatures.
It's a--
>>NOORY: Of the same
structure, though, right?
>>HAAS: Of the same structure.
>>NOORY: What would it
take in nature, George,
to make that kind of
structure in nature?
>>HAAS: Well, these formations,
geologists would say,
would be caused by wind erosion,
coming in different directions.
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>HAAS: Right.
It would have-- and of
course, the wind would--
>>NOORY: That's bizarre.
>>HAAS: The wind would affect
the structures next to it,
so you'd see a uniform type of--
now this image
they're showing now,
this is what I call
the shield star.
>>NOORY: It looks like a parrot.
>>HAAS: Now if you look at
this, it's very symmetrical.
You have the two points.
It's a star shape.
I call it a star shield.
And I have the drawing
on the other side there.
It's very symmetrical.
And I don't know how
nature could make
something that is so geometric.
>>NOORY: That looks like
your mustache up in the top
left there.
>>HAAS: You notice
the point at the top.
I mean, how does something
like this happen naturally?
>>NOORY: Naturally, exactly.
>>HAAS: If you had wind
going across the top,
I don't know how you'd have
that point sticking out there.
>>NOORY: What about the bizarre
structure down at the bottom?
>>HAAS: That's just-- actually,
a larger picture of this,
you would see there's a
big crack in the surface.
There's been some type
of faulting, which hits
the corner of that structure.
>>NOORY: It almost looks like a
parrot's head with an eyeball,
doesn't it?
>>HAAS: It looks that it
has a beak to it and--
>>NOORY: Down at the bottom.
>>HAAS: Oh, I see what
you're looking at.
Yes, yes, kind of.
>>NOORY: That's something.
Now generally, George, that
would have been how big?
>>HAAS: That's about,
I think, 6 miles long.
>>NOORY: 6.
Now what are we looking at here?
Is this that-- no, this
is a four-sided one.
>>HAAS: This is another
four-sided pyramid
in the same area.
These are all right next
to Carl Sagan's pyramid.
This is a four-sided pyramid.
I call this the kite
because the one end,
the western end is
a little elongated.
But you can see
the symmetry here.
This is the perfect symmetrical
geometric formation--
again, something that
doesn't happen in nature.
And these are all
in the same area.
>>NOORY: If you were to take
aerials of the pyramids of Giza
in Egypt, would
they look like this?
>>HAAS: They would look
very similar to this.
And the thing is
that, of course,
these are probably covered
with dirt and sand.
So we're just seeing--
>>NOORY: Oh, that's
a good point.
>>HAAS: We're seeing the--
if the pyramids in Egypt were
covered with dirt and sand--
>>NOORY: It would have
that kind of texture to it.
>>HAAS: Right.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>HAAS: You see this type
of formation in Mexico
because the Maya had a
tendency to bury pyramids.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>HAAS: So Teotihuacan, when
that was first discovered,
it was just covered with dirt.
>>NOORY: Now look
at this strange one.
>>HAAS: Now this is what I
call the Star Shield Junior.
It's kind of like the
first one we looked at,
but this is a lot smaller.
This one, I think,
is, like, 4 miles.
>>NOORY: Now that
looks natural to me.
This one does.
>>HAAS: Well, to me, it
looks very geometric.
If you look at the
drawing, all the angles,
I mean, it's just
amazing that you
have all these angles in there.
>>NOORY: Sure.
And then here's this.
>>HAAS: Now this is,
again, next to all
of these other formations.
This is another
three-sided pyramid,
kind of like the Sagan pyramid.
And this one has
the three faces.
Very geometric.
And again, this
is not a formation
that you would find in nature.
>>NOORY: What are
the possibilities,
George, that Mars was
inhabited and these
were built by whatever?
>>HAAS: Well, that's what
we're thinking these are.
These are huge mounds, like
a mound building culture,
like we have with the American
Indians out in the Midwest,
building these huge mounds.
These things are huge.
This is about two miles
square, this formation.
>>NOORY: And what
happened to them?
If Mars was inhabited,
some catastrophe
destroyed them or what?
>>HAAS: Well, that's what
we're trying to figure out
with what happened
to this culture,
if these are actual structures
from a civilization.
>>NOORY: Right, built
by a civilization.
>>HAAS: It appears that Mars has
gone through many catastrophes.
We had the third planet
theory, which the asteroid belt
had blown up, that, possibly,
the asteroid belt was
a large planet that occupied--
>>NOORY: Between
Mars and Jupiter.
>>HAAS: Exactly.
And that, through some type
of catastrophe, either natural
or some kind of a Darth
Vader beam blowing it up,
the planet blew up.
And that's how we have
the asteroid belt.
Now remnants from that
asteroid hit Mars, our moon.
There's a lot of
craters on that side.
It hit Earth.
The theories are that's
what killed the dinosaurs.
Now the thing with
the dinosaurs is
that I think what
killed the dinosaurs is
when this Planet X blew up--
>>NOORY: Yes, I think so.
>>HAAS: --creating
the asteroid belt.
>>NOORY: Right, and we
got hit by one of them.
>>HAAS: It affected the
placement of the planets.
The planets were--
Earth was probably a
lot closer to the sun--
>>NOORY: All right.
>>HAAS: --when this other--
if you stick another
planet in there--
>>NOORY: Not as close as Venus.
>>HAAS: Everybody
has to move around.
Because if you're in a line and
then another person's in line,
everybody has to move up
a little bit to make room.
Because everybody's got--
>>NOORY: You got to
compensate for that.
>>HAAS: You have to have
your six feet distancing.
You've got to keep
your distance.
So imagine that
planet is taken out.
Now everybody's--
>>NOORY: Now you've
got some more room.
>>HAAS: --jostling
for position again.
So, planet Earth
moves further out.
So now you have less gravity.
Or you have more gravity,
because it's the placement
of the planets are moving.
So this is probably what
killed the dinosaurs
because they couldn't live
through such a higher--
the higher gravity that we have.
>>NOORY: Let's look at some
more formations on Mars
and get your opinion on this,
whether these are terrestrial
or not.
All right, this is--
>>HAAS: Now this--
>>NOORY: This is perfect.
>>HAAS: Right, this
image is found in Nevada.
This is on the famous Area 51.
This is from--
>>NOORY: That's a
natural structure?
>>HAAS: Google Earth, yes.
This was built-- this is a
military base in Area 51.
>>NOORY: The
symmetry is perfect.
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah, but
I put this on here
to show you how we're looking
at these pyramids on Mars that
are very similar to this.
This is a three-sided pyramid.
>>NOORY: But this was not--
was this constructed by man?
>>HAAS: Yes.
>>NOORY: Oh, it was?
>>HAAS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Oh, OK.
>>HAAS: This is a man-made--
this is on a base in Nevada.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: This is part
of a military base.
I don't know what they're
using this three-sided--
>>NOORY: How big is that?
>>HAAS: --building for?
This here is probably--
>>NOORY: Giza size?
>>HAAS: Oh, no, no, very small.
>>NOORY: Small.
>>HAAS: It's--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: There's actually
on the side of this a road.
Those little
buildings on the side,
that small one on the
right, that's probably
as big as a tractor trailer.
>>NOORY: What's the
hole on top of it?
>>HAAS: Don't know.
>>NOORY: That's an
interesting take.
>>HAAS: And again,
the top is flat,
like you have the Giza
pyramids where the--
>>NOORY: Yeah,
it's just perfect.
>>HAAS: It's missing
the capstone.
>>NOORY: Now what
is this, George?
>>HAAS: I put this slide in
there to show the viewers,
looking back at the star shields
and the star shield junior,
that kind of shape, this is
a very similar shape here.
This is Fort Henry.
This is in Tennessee.
This was built in 1861.
This was built
during the Civil War.
In the 1700s, 1800s,
over in Europe,
a lot of military structures
were built as a star shape.
And during the Civil War, a
lot of the North and the South
utilized this whole
idea of star forts.
Because it has a military--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>HAAS: --use.
>>NOORY: And that indeed
looks like a star.
>>HAAS: And you have the
buttresses on the side, which
all this military use.
So I was just showing that
a common structural design
on Earth looks very similar
to what we're seeing
on Mars with that star shield.
>>NOORY: That looks almost
like a fort, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, they're forts.
That's Fort Henry.
>>NOORY: Oh, OK.
All right.
Now what the heck is this?
>>HAAS: Now this is an arkology.
This is the theory that some
of these structures on Mars,
like the Sagan pyramids
and these formations,
that these are huge
man-made structures that
are arkologies that
you can live in.
So if we were to go to--
>>NOORY: So this is underground?
>>HAAS: And they also are
above ground and underground.
>>NOORY: I see, OK.
>>HAAS: So the
probability that if we
find these structures
on Mars and are
able to go there and
get inside, then we
may find rooms and libraries
and all kinds of things.
>>NOORY: Is it like a city?
>>HAAS: Yes, it's a whole city.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
And what's holding it up?
>>HAAS: It's just--
>>NOORY: It looks
like it has legs.
>>HAAS: Well, that's elevators
on the sides that go down.
>>NOORY: OK, all right.
>>HAAS: This is just a schematic
of showing you a profile view
of what above and
below what these--
>>NOORY: Now this
is based on your--
>>HAAS: No, this is an
arkology which was put together
by an architect.
He was a student of
Frank Lloyd Wright.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: This is
>>NOORY: There's a
geodesic dome there.
>>HAAS: This is geodesic
dome, which was we all
know Buckminster Fuller.
And him and Solaris
also worked together.
And--
>>NOORY: Now you don't
find those on Mars, do you?
>>HAAS: No, but we're saying
this type of intricate
construction could
be underneath these--
>>NOORY: Underneath
these facilities.
>>HAAS: Which holding
these structures up.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: This kind of composite
modular type of construction.
>>NOORY: Pyramids in
the star shape again.
>>HAAS: Right.
Now, this is, again,
just showing you these
could be the supportive
armatures of how
these formations on
Mars are put together,
like the star fort and
things like that, if these
were constructed on Mars.
And they're so
large, you would have
to have these kind of girders
and arches to hold it up.
And this is just
contemporary people
that have put these
theories together
of trying to build
modern architecture.
>>NOORY: Well, we won't know,
George, unless we go, right?
>>HAAS: That's right.
We have to go.
>>NOORY: That's the thing.
>>HAAS: And a lot of people at
this point want to go to Mars.
We have India working
on sending a--
>>NOORY: China, everybody.
>>HAAS: China is teaming
up with their good friends,
the Russians.
They're going to
do a joint mission.
And I think Japan,
and also, we have
Elon Musk and our
government trying
to get to the moon and Mars.
>>NOORY: Jeez, outside of
the Russians helping us
get to the International
Space Station,
when's the last time they sent
a probe to another planet?
My God, it's been years.
>>HAAS: Well, they're
teaming up with China.
Now, China has been to
the moon twice already.
>>NOORY: Right, absolutely.
>>HAAS: And they've actually
been to the dark side already.
>>NOORY: They're
on the far side.
>>HAAS: They're on
the far side, yeah.
We don't know what they're
doing over there, but.
>>NOORY: But can you
imagine we got there
with 50-year-old technology?
>>HAAS: It's amazing that--
>>NOORY: Why didn't
we capitalize on that?
We were 50 years ahead
of everybody, George.
We'd be so far ahead right now.
Now they're catching up to us.
>>HAAS: Well, I think the space
program was halted because
of what they found on the moon.
I think there was more than--
>>NOORY: Did it scare them?
>>HAAS: I think there was--
the ruins and things that
we're finding on Mars,
there was evidence through
the early Apollo photographs
of the moon that there was some
weird things up there also.
And that may be one of the
reasons why we stopped going.
>>NOORY: Were we told not to go?
>>HAAS: There's theories
that we were told, stay away.
The Russians were way
ahead of us in the '60s.
>>NOORY: Oh, absolutely.
>>HAAS: They had orbited
the moon way before we did.
They had the first
woman in space.
And they had the first float--
>>NOORY: They had
the first satellite.
>>HAAS: Right, they
had the first low orbit
photographs of the surface.
And some of the
theories are that they
may have saw these structures
before we did and alerted
the United States and said,
maybe we don't need to go here.
We don't need this
kind of environment.
>>NOORY: Be careful.
>>HAAS: Right, and
then right after that,
Kennedy was assassinated.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's true, too.
The raptor head,
the geoglyph, that
is on Mars near the
Sagan pyramid, right?
>>HAAS: Yes, this
is the raptor head.
Now this is also located in
Elysium, which is about--
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>HAAS: --350 miles
from the Sagan pyramids.
So to give the audience
an idea, that's
probably the distance from New
York to Richmond, Virginia.
So that's about 350 miles.
So it's very close in
the scheme of things.
>>NOORY: Let's look at the
next picture, which I think
is the raptor head as well.
Yeah.
>>HAAS: Yes, this is
just a colorized version.
This is a raptor head.
It's a profiled head
of which looks to me
has the beak, the small head.
It's got the eye.
And I'm just comparing it here
to a contemporary sculpture
of a raptor head.
>>NOORY: What do
you think, George?
If these were made
by extraterrestrials,
what's the significance
of doing this?
Why are they building structures
that resemble raptor heads?
So, for who?
>>HAAS: Well, if you look
at this complete complex,
the raptor head sits at
the top of the complex.
And all of the other
structures are below it.
The raptor or the eagle
is a symbol of the sun.
That's the highest point.
The raptor, the eagles, they're
the highest flying bird.
So there's Egyptian mythology.
You have Horace, all this
connections to the sun.
So it would make
perfect sense to put
a pictograph of a bird, an eagle
at the top of your complex.
And a traveling culture
flying over your planet,
looking down, seeing a
recognizable raptor head
would say, oh, looky here.
This is where our settlement is.
This is where our city is.
>>NOORY: It is weird,
I got to tell you.
It doesn't look natural.
>>HAAS: Now, this slide
here is showing you
where labeled A, that's
where the Carl Sagan
complex is with
all the pyramids,
the star-shaped formations.
Now if you go down to
the southwest letter B,
that's how close the
raptor head complex is.
>>NOORY: How far is A to B?
What do you think?
>>HAAS: It's 350 miles.
>>NOORY: OK, not bad.
These structures-- and
they're all over the planet,
aren't they?
>>HAAS: They are.
>>NOORY: What does
that tell you?
>>HAAS: Well, it
shows you there's
settlements all over the place.
Of course, Cydonia, which
most people know about
with the DNA--
>>NOORY: The face.
>>HAAS: --pyramid and things
like that and the face on Mars.
And a lot of people
early on were
just comfortable with
looking at Cydonia as--
because I know Richard Hoagland
had put a lot of emphasis
on the mathematics.
And he figured that the Cydonia
area was the only place that
had ruins and the face on Mars.
>>NOORY: Well, that's not true.
>>HAAS: No, but at the
time, he had thought that,
and a lot of other
people did, too,
that this was the
signature showing us
about all this high math and
the tetrahedral geometry.
And but what we're finding,
since a lot of people
got interested in looking
through these NASA photographs,
is that we're finding
these similar complexes
in other parts of the planet.
>>NOORY: All over the planet.
>>HAAS: They're in
Utopia, in Elysium.
They're all over.
>>NOORY: Were they near places
that you think had water?
>>HAAS: It appears
to be when you
look at NASA
scientists, geologists,
that talk about
where the water was
and where the land
was, all of these
seem to be around
the shore area,
right next to
where the water is.
We're not finding any
of these cities where
in the middle of the
oceans where they predict
that the water would be.
So that even gives more
evidence that these are possibly
settlements.
>>NOORY: Predict for
us what you think Mars
was like a billion years ago.
>>HAAS: Well, Mars
was probably very
Earth like, rivers, oceans,
probably more water for mass
than we have on Earth.
And there possibly was
an advanced civilization.
Now these structures that
we're finding on Mars,
I don't necessarily
think that they
were built by the
indigenous people of Mars.
Because that culture
probably was extinct.
And when Mars evolved--
>>NOORY: Whatever
happened to Mars.
>>HAAS: --and had
water, whatever
happened to that
Planet X that blew up
that created the asteroid belt,
that probably really affected
it.
Now, the Martian
people that were there
could have known that this
thing was going to blow up
and had moved and migrated
to Earth or our moon.
>>NOORY: We could
be the Martians.
>>HAAS: We could
And what we're seeing
on Mars is evidence
of a more recent settlement.
It's as if the Martians left
Mars when it was destroyed,
came to our moon and our
planet, and once they
evolved here and were
able to be spacefaring,
they put colonies on Mars.
And possibly, there
was another conflict
like we had with between the
United States and England.
You have colonies going from
Earth, settling on Mars,
and of course, then they want
to have their own government.
Why are we depending
on Earth, we can--
and that could end up having
a conflict and another war.
>>NOORY: If they
came here from Mars,
and it's ironic that Cairo
means Mars in Egypt, but let's
say they built the pyramids,
and they did other things
on this planet.
Where did they go?
>>HAAS: Well, that's
another mystery.
Of course, with
the Martians, you
have this new settlements that
we're seeing evidence of now.
And of course, that
is all dead now.
What we're seeing on
Mars, this is ruins.
There's nobody living there.
>>NOORY: It's over.
>>HAAS: And you have to
add into that whole concept
the idea of the Anunnaki,
what part did they play.
And so there seems to be a lot
of different candidates for who
built these structures.
And like you said, earlier,
one way we're going to find out
is actually if we go there.
>>NOORY: We have to go.
>>HAAS: And I think
there's a lot of evidence
through the NASA photographs
and other European Space Agency
that even England
and Germans that they
want to be part of this.
And we all want to get
to Mars to find out
if any of this stuff
is actually something
we can get our hands dirty on.
>>NOORY: The surrounding area
of the raptor head geoglyph,
you sent us some
additional pictures.
Let's take a look at them,
George, and see what they are.
I find this fascinating.
Now what is this?
>>HAAS: Now this is
a four-sided pyramid
that has what
appears to be a ramp
or a platform on the front.
You can see the four faces, very
geometric, very symmetrical.
You have the four
flat faces again.
At the top, there seems
to be a flat area,
like there might have
been a capstone that
had blown off at one time.
But this, again, is a very
symmetrical formation.
These lines that I put on--
that I overlaid just shows
the spine, the supportive
structure.
And again, this is something
that looks very artificial.
>>NOORY: Whatever it is,
it's very old, too, isn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, again, like
when the archaeologists first
started looking at
structures in Mexico,
a lot of them that were just--
>>NOORY: Now this is strange.
>>HAAS: Yeah, these
are covered in sand.
On the left side, we have
an S-shaped formation, which
I call the serpentine mound.
Next to that, you have a
circular mound at the top
and a square mound
at the bottom.
This whole formation, the
serpent S-shaped formation,
is about three miles.
So this whole thing is square.
And it all seems to
be clustered together.
Now I don't know
how anything could
be explained about how
you could get a circular
or square or this S-shaped
formation that would
be caused by wind erosion.
>>NOORY: Could these have
been natural formations
that they carved out?
>>HAAS: No, I think these
are artificial structures.
>>NOORY: All of them.
>>HAAS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: From the get-go.
>>HAAS: And these two
examples here on the left,
this is the cascade structure.
This was built-- this was plans
for an architectural house.
This is called the
cascade S on the left.
>>NOORY: Now where is that?
>>HAAS: And that is in Utah.
That was done by an architect
that did this in 2016,
I believe.
And his name was, I
think, Wallace Cunningham.
>>NOORY: All right, and
what's on the right?
>>HAAS: That's the architect.
On the right side, these are--
>>NOORY: It looks like a
peanut. these modular--
>>HAAS: This is kind of
like the geodesic domes,
but these are modular
formations that you can build
any kind of shape with these.
And this is by I think a
Dutch architectural firm--
N55 it's called-- that
put these together.
And they call
these space plates.
And again--
>>NOORY: Are we looking
at it from above?
>>HAAS: Yes.
>>NOORY: Is that
what we're doing?
>>HAAS: Right.
So it forms an S just
like we're seeing
like that serpentine
formation on Mars.
So either one of these
contemporary architects
could have produced
that formation on Mars.
>>NOORY: Now this is strange.
What is this?
>>HAAS: This is an
American Indian mound.
This is just a circular dome,
which I use here to just show--
>>NOORY: You put some
comparisons in here.
>>HAAS: Comparison
of the circular dome
that we're seeing on Mars with
a huge American Indian dome.
Now that white
line you see there,
that's a contemporary
piece that's been added.
That's stairs that you can go
to the top of the mountain.
>>NOORY: And
obviously, you can tell
this was man-made
because of the cemetery.
>>HAAS: Right
>>NOORY: And this
is, what, Mars?
>>HAAS: No, this is on Earth.
This is in China.
This is one of the--
>>NOORY: Man-made?
>>HAAS: Yeah, these are one
of the man-made pyramids that
are all in China.
These pyramids in China were
discovered during World War II.
>>NOORY: Why is it
so rough looking?
>>HAAS: Because
it's deteriorating.
It's a mound pyramid.
And what you're seeing--
>>NOORY: And it's old.
>>HAAS: Yes, it's very old.
And China hasn't really given
us much information about these.
These are in the
Zion area of China.
>>NOORY: Are they holding back?
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah.
But this stuff was
always denied by China.
They don't tell you anything.
>>NOORY: What do you mean?
They said it never existed?
>>HAAS: They said
they never existed.
But because we have Google--
>>NOORY: There is.
>>HAAS: Google Earth--
>>NOORY: You can't hide that.
>>HAAS: These
things are all over.
There's hundreds of them.
And some of them are massive.
>>NOORY: Well, why
don't they come forward?
To me, that's historical.
What are they hiding?
>>HAAS: Well, it's a
communist government.
And if they say it doesn't
exist, it doesn't exist.
They've actually taken some
of these pyramids in China,
and they've put dirt over
them and planted trees.
So you can't see them.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: So here, I'm showing the
comparison of the possibilities
of you have this American Indian
mound, the circular mound,
the squared eroded
mound from China,
and this contemporary
module type of construction.
>>NOORY: So there are
similarities between what
you see on Mars and here.
>>HAAS: Yeah, I'm just showing
the possibility that these
could have been constructed.
And these are--
>>NOORY: Well, and I think what
you've done so brilliantly,
George, is you've
taken things that we
know are artificial from
here and compared it
to things on Mars.
All right, what do we have here?
>>HAAS: Now this is another
one of the formations that's
below the raptor head.
>>NOORY: That looks weathered,
extremely weathered.
>>HAAS: The top is rounded,
which could have been by wind.
But this is almost
a perfect pentagon.
>>NOORY: Fascinating there, too.
>>HAAS: Right, and you
can see the line overlays.
It's pretty symmetrical.
This is another formation
down below the raptor head.
This is a square type mound
with a little truncated ramp
that goes off the side.
>>NOORY: And look at the
perfect circle in the middle.
>>HAAS: Now that's an odd thing.
The circle in the middle,
now if that was a meteor hit,
it would blow up the structure.
>>NOORY: The whole
thing would be gone.
>>HAAS: Yeah, so
this appears to be
some type of supportive
structure underneath that's
collapsed.
And you can also
see the collapsing
on that linear part
there just below the--
it looks like part
of it has collapsed.
>>NOORY: What could it have
been used for if they used it?
>>HAAS: These were
probably used for-- there
could be, like we were
talking about earlier,
these arkologies.
There could have been
massive rooms and structures.
>>NOORY: Could it have
been a launch site?
>>HAAS: No, I think it
was a building that--
>>NOORY: A building.
>>HAAS: --people were living in.
>>NOORY: A big building.
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah, huge.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
And you think that
they built these
because of the environment?
They needed to hide?
>>HAAS: That's why I
use the arkology model
because they're living
inside these huge mounds.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
How do people get a hold of your
website and your work, George?
>>HAAS: I'm a member of the
Society for Planetary SETI
Research.
They can contact me there, or
with the Cydonia Institute.
Just type it on the internet,
thecydoniaininstitute.com,
and--
>>NOORY: Super.
>>HAAS: --we have all
kinds of records, archives.
Some of our papers
are published there.
And we've had, I
think, six papers
published in science
journals that the audience--
>>NOORY: We've got some
final graphics here.
Let's take a look at the
rectangular-looking formations.
>>HAAS: All right.
>>NOORY: These got
to be fascinating.
>>HAAS: Yeah, well, this
is a rectangular cluster.
>>NOORY: That's the
parrothead, right?
>>HAAS: Right, well the--
>>NOORY: The raptor.
>>HAAS: The raptor
head at the top.
And right below that, we
have this whole cluster
of all these formations.
And on the right side,
that is a LiDAR image
of a Maya city, which
is covered by jungle.
And the LiDAR camera
just comes down
and bounces off the surface.
So this whole--
>>NOORY: They look
like buildings.
>>HAAS: Yeah, well, they are.
These are Maya structures
on the right side.
That's from Mesoamerica on
the right side of the screen.
The left side, I'm just
doing the comparison,
showing that this
whole cluster of--
>>NOORY: I see what
you're doing, OK.
>>HAAS: --of formations
look very much
like what we're seeing on Mars.
And this whole area
in that rectangle
that's outlined there,
that's about 10 miles.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>HAAS: Which is very comparable
to what we're seeing in Mexico.
>>NOORY: The Maya did a little
better job than the Martians
in terms of structures.
>>HAAS: Yes.
>>NOORY: Their objects are
a little more symmetried.
Bottom line is, your
conclusion is what?
Mars was inhabited.
Something tragic happened.
They left, maybe came here?
>>HAAS: That about sums it up.
>>NOORY: That does it.
>>HAAS: Yes.
We're finding these
structures, but it
appears that these formations,
these large mounds,
these pyramidal formations,
we believe they were built
after Mars was a dead planet.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HAAS: A culture
that came there.
That's why these huge arkologies
are things they lived in,
as opposed to some
people think, well,
if you were to go to
Mars, the best thing to do
would be live underground,
because there's water
under there and everything.
But whatever culture
did this, they
decided to build these huge
mounds in these big arkologies
that they were--
and once we go there
and actually are
able to go inside
those, we're probably
going to find all kinds
of buildings and archives
and libraries that are going
to be inside these buildings.
>>NOORY: Do you think there
was a planetary design on Mars
for the entire planet?
>>HAAS: There are some people
that think that all of these
cities and--
>>NOORY: They're all connected.
>>HAAS: --complexes we're
finding are kind of connected.
I haven't seen the kind
of grid work that we see.
I know there's a
lot of researchers
that have done the global
grid that the Earth seems
to have with all of
these cultures lining up,
these cities and everything.
It's a very obvious grid
pattern on our planet.
But I haven't seen strong
evidence of that on Mars yet.
But we haven't found
all the cities.
>>NOORY: Well, that
you keep looking.
You keep looking.
George, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>HAAS: Well, George
Noory, I love coming here.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
It's fascinating, just to
think what that planet of Mars
might have been like
millions, if not billions,
of years ago, and the
tragedy that occurred there
when another planet exploded
and those Martians had to leave.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]